\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename fbnews.info
@settitle fbnews Manual 0.5
@c %**end of header
     
@copying
     This manual is for fbnews 0.5 
     Copyright @copyright{ 2004-2005} Frithjof Engel    
@end copying
     
@titlepage
@title fbnews Manual
@subtitle A RSS/RDF news fetcher for fluxbox
@author Frithjof Engel
     
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end titlepage

@contents
     
@ifnottex
@node Top, Getting fbnews, (dir), (dir)
@top fbnews
     
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@chapter Introduction
fbnews is a RSS/RDF news fetcher for fluxbox. It creates 
a submenu structure in the fluxbox menu and fills it with the content of 
the RSS sources you specify. You can then read the news items with your
favorite browser.

@menu
* Getting fbnews::        
* Understanding how fbnews works::
* Configuration::        
* Invoking fbnews::
* Copying::
* Credits::
@end menu

@node Getting fbnews, Understanding how fbnews works, Top, Top
@chapter How to obtain and install fbnews

@menu 
* Requirements::
* Installing::
* Creating a fluxbox menu entry::
* Automatically starting fbnews::
@end menu

@node Requirements, Installing, Getting fbnews, Getting fbnews
@section Requirements
fbnews requires Python 2.3 and the recent fluxbox devel version.
If you want documentation, you need GNU texinfo as well.

@node Installing, Creating a fluxbox menu entry, Requirements, Getting fbnews
@section Installing
You can download fbnews on its website
@uref{http://www.fms-engel.de/fbnews, www.fms-engel.de}.
Then do:

@example
tar xzf fbnews-0.4.tar.gz
cd fbnews-0.4
su -c "make install"
@end example

If this is your first installation of fbnews, copy the example rc file to
your personal .fluxbox directory.

@example
cp fbnewsrc ~/.fluxbox
@end example

@node Creating a fluxbox menu entry, Automatically starting fbnews, Installing, Getting fbnews
@section Creating a fluxbox menu entry
For every specified rss file, one submenu in the News menu will be
created. The News menu is basically just a fluxbox submenu which must be
created manually. Its position in the fluxbox menu file does not matter:

@verbatim
[submenu] (Apps) {}
    [exec] (Cool program) {cool}
[end]

[submenu] (<- News ->) {}             <- This is the newsmenu
    [include] (~/.fluxbox/news)      
[end]
@end verbatim

As shown above, the Newsmenu only has to include one file; the file in which
fbnews writes the converted rss data. The actual name of the menu (in this
case '<- News ->' does not matter. 

@node Automatically starting fbnews,  , Creating a fluxbox menu entry, Getting fbnews
@section Automatically starting fbnews
There are several ways to automatically invoke fbnews when starting
fluxbox. The most elegant way in the author's opinion is putting an [startup]
entry into .fluxbox/apps. Just add the following line.

@verbatim
[startup]              {fbnews}
@end verbatim

Other ways are using X's .xinitrc/.Xsession facilities. However, these
are not further illustrated here. 

@node Understanding how fbnews works, Configuration, Getting fbnews, Top
@chapter Understanding how fbnews works
fbnews consists of a small set of Python scripts that parses rss input
and converts it into the fluxbox menu format. The normal operation mode 
is invoking fbnews on fluxbox startup. By default it will then fetch 
the rss files you have specified and afterwards sleeps for some time
until it refetches the rss data. The converted data now
reside in a file (default is ~/.fluxbox/news) you can include from your 
fluxbox menu.

fbnews' behaviour can be configured in the file ~/.fluxbox/fbnewsrc and 
by passing command line options. See the following two chapters on how
to do this.

@node Configuration, Invoking fbnews, Understanding how fbnews works, Top
@chapter Configuration via fbnewsrc

@menu
* Specifying rss files::
* General configuration::
@end menu

@node Specifying rss files, General configuration, Configuration, Configuration
@section Specifying rss files
In your ~/.fluxbox/fbnewsrc file, you'll find a line called
[Sources]. Below that line you can list the rss files you want to
have fetched. An example:

@example
[Sources]
http://url.to/rdf
http://secondurl.com/site.rss
@end example

@subsection Using scripts instead of rss sources
If the site you want to syndicate does not offer an rss file, you 
can use scripts that parse the regular HTML code and send the 
headlines to stdout in rss format. (You'll find some of these 
scripts on @uref{http://www.fms-engel.de/r3s, the author's webpage})

Such scripts can be used in fbnews:

@example
[Sources]
Scripts: ~/scripts/somesite.py
@end example

This will execute the script and take the output as rss code.

@subsection Categories
Fbnews supports subcategories.
To define a category, use the keyword ``Cat:'' followed by a name: 

@example
[Sources]
http://someurl.bla/rdf # This resides in the root fbnews menu
Cat: Computers
http://acomputersite.com/rss
Cat: Recreation
http://thingsiliketodo.com/rdf
@end example

This example features two categories, with each one rss file in it:
``Computers'' and ``Recreation''.

@subsection Separators
Sometimes it's useful to visually separate certain site items in 
the fluxbox menu for better navigation. You can use Separators for this:

@example
[Sources]
http://url.to/rdf
Sep: -- Science --
http://science.url/rdf
@end example

This will insert a Separator between the first and the second URL.

@page

@node General configuration,  , Specifying rss files, Configuration
@section General configuration
You can control the way fbnews works in the file ~/.fluxbox/fbnewsrc.
The syntax is:
@verbatim
<option>: <value>
@end verbatim

@subsection Browser 
When you click on a menu item, that is, news item, your browser will
load the webpage for it. The default is:

@example 
Browser: "startmoz %s"
@end example

This will look for a mozilla browser you have installed. 
When an instance is already running, it
will open a new tab for it, otherwise it will start a new instance. 
Startmoz is actually a utility script that is installed by 
fbnews to open new tabs in mozilla browsers. Alternatively, you can
specify your browser of choice here. 
%s is the URL that will be passed as an argument.

@subsection Sleep 
The time in minutes fbnews sleeps after each news fetch. Please set a 
reasonable high value here to not annoy site administrators.
Default is:

@example
Sleep: 120
@end example

@subsection Newsfile 
The newsfile is the output file for fbnews. This contains the fluxbox
menu code for your rss files. You include this file from your main
fluxbox menu, as described in the chapter on installation. 
Default is:

@example
Newsfile: ~/.fluxbox/news
@end example

@subsection Logfile
fbnews reports the status of the last fetch here.
Default is:

@example
Logfile: ~/.fluxbox/fbnews.log
@end example

@subsection Siteformat
By default fbnews uses the site title given in the rss file as its site
caption. If you don't want this, you can define a custom rule for site
captions:

@example
Siteformat: ``%s'' # The default, nothing special
@end example

@subsection Maxlen
Some sites have an annoyingly long title. This will expand the fluxbox
menu beyond useful dimensions. To avoid it you can specify a maximum 
title length here:

@example
Maxlen: ``30'' # This will limit site titles to 30 characters
@end example

@node Invoking fbnews, Copying, Configuration, Top
@chapter Invoking fbnews
@verbatim
Usage: fbnews [options]
Options:
  -1, --once        Just fetch feeds once, then exit
  -f rcfile,        Use alternative rcfile as fbnewsrc
  --file rcfile     
  --dump            Dump output to screen
  --html file       Write html output to file
  -d, --debug       Be verbose on the screen
  -h, --help        Print this screen
@end verbatim

@section Options
@subsection ---once, -1
Normally fbnews runs as a daemon. To suppress this, use this option.
Fbnews will fetch the rss data and then quit.

@subsection ---dump
Write the converted rss data to screen instead of writing it to 
a file (normally ~/.fluxbox/news).

@subsection --html file
Fbnews writes html output to file. Note that normal output
to fluxbox news file will NOT happen if you specify this option.

@node Copying, Credits, Invoking fbnews, Top
@chapter Copying
Both fbnews and this manual can be distributed under the terms of the 
GNU General Public License. See file COPYING that came with this 
distribution. 

@node Credits,  , Copying, Top
@chapter Credits

fbnews was written by Frithjof Engel
@email{frithjof_engel@@users.sf.net}.
Others have helped in one way or another. Take a look at the
file ``THANKS'' that came with this software.

fbnews is postcard-ware. If you like it, please consider sending the 
author a postcard. That always makes his day.
@verbatim
Frithjof Engel 
Goetenkamp 26
22927 Grosshansdorf
Germany
@end verbatim

@c Local Variables: 
@c mode: texinfo1
@c TeX-master: t
@c End: 
